zmv: add page (#4705)
tldr-pages/tldr: pages/common/zmv.md

> # zsh

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# zmv
```

> > Move (usually, rename) files matching the regex pattern to corresponding files having names of the form given by destination.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Move or rename files matching the regex pattern to corresponding files having names of the form given by destination.
```

> More information: <http://zsh.sourceforge.net/Doc/Release/User-Contributions.html>.

> - Below renames ‘foo.lis’ to ‘foo.txt’, and so on:

Reviewer: Maybe this is better:
```suggestion
- Change the extension for all `*.log` files to `.txt`, keeping the same name:
```

Author: It's not only an extension rename. We can change other parts of file name so let's keep it generic.

Reviewer: But your example can be dedicated for just change extensions.

Author: I suppose the example is simple but a bit restrictive.

It lets you define `capturing group` like in regex and use it in the destination file name. That's where I see it shine.

Eg - `zmv '(*) - (*).mp3' '$2 - $1.mp3'` renames `HeartBreaker - Mariah Carey.mp3` to `Mariah Carey - HeartBreaker.mp3`

> `zmv '(*).lis' '$1.txt'`

Reviewer: The arguments should be between `{}`:
```suggestion
`zmv '{{(*).log}}' '{{$1.txt}}'`
```

> - No execution: print what would happen, but don’t do it:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Display the command result without do changes in the filesystem:
```

> `zmv -n '(*).lis' '$1.txt'`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`zmv -n '{{(*).log}}' '{{$1.txt}}'`
```

> - Interactive: show each line to be executed and ask the user whether to execute it:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Interactively move files, with a prompt before every change:
```

> `zmv -i '(*).lis' '$1.txt'`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`zmv -i '{{(*).log}}' '{{$1.txt}}'`
```

# zmv

> > Move or rename files matching a specified regex pattern.

Reviewer 2: Hmm, it doesn't seem like "regex" is the right terminology. From [this page](https://filipe.kiss.ink/zmv-zsh-rename/):

> First of all, let me get this out of the way: `zmv` does not operate using regular expressions, but it uses [glob](http://zsh.sourceforge.net/Doc/Release/Expansion.html#Glob-Operators) operators to match the files. It's the same pattern you are used to use in the CLI environment but, unfortunately, we can't do things like `[0-9]{4}` to match any sequence of 4 numbers. We actually need to repeat the pattern four times — i.e. `[0-9][0-9][0-9][0-9]` - to get the same result.

And from the [official documentation](http://zsh.sourceforge.net/Doc/Release/User-Contributions.html#Other-Functions), linked below:

> The pattern is always treated as an EXTENDED_GLOB pattern.

So maybe let's change "regex pattern" to "extended glob pattern"?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Move or rename files matching a specified extended glob pattern.
```

> > Move or rename files matching a specified extended glob pattern.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Move or rename files matching a specified extended glob pattern.
> See also `zcp` and `zln`.
```

> > Move or rename files matching the regex pattern to corresponding files having names of the form given by destination.

Reviewer 3: Perhaps this will read better?
```suggestion
> Move or rename files matching a specified regex pattern.
```

> More information: <http://zsh.sourceforge.net/Doc/Release/User-Contributions.html>.

> - Below renames `foo.log` to `foo.txt`, and so on:
> 
> `zmv '{{(*).log}}' '{{$1.txt}}'`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Move files using a regex-like pattern:

`zmv '{{(*).log}}' '{{$1.txt}}'`
```

> - Below renames `foo.log` to `foo.txt`, and so on:

Reviewer 3: Is there any way  that we can describe precisely what this is doing, rather than giving an example of how the example functions here?

Author: I think examples are better than full-on descriptions but if there are any specific changes you'd like, I'm happy to incorporate that. I'm also wary of not adding too much text as `tldr` :P

Reviewer 3: Hrm. What about this?
```suggestion
- Change extensions in filenames using a pattern:
```

Author: It may give the users an impression that it can only be used for file ext change. 

How about the below example?

`zmv '{{(*) - (*).txt}}' '{{$2 - $1.txt}}'`

This renames `test - item.txt` to `item - test.txt`

This is how I use it mostly and that's where I see its strength.

Author: A better example is here https://github.com/tldr-pages/tldr/pull/4705#discussion_r507267446

Reviewer 2: The first example should be the simplest (see [guideline #4](https://github.com/tldr-pages/tldr/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#guidelines)). We can add a second example with more advanced regex, to showcase the power of the tool, but the first one should be short and easy to understand at a glance. I think we can keep the current example and just change the description, maybe to something like this:

```
- Move files using a regex-like pattern:

`zmv '{{(*).log}}' '{{$1.txt}}'`
```

WDYT?

> - Preview the result, without making any actual changes:

Reviewer 2: Just to be a little more explicit:

```suggestion
- Preview the result of a move, without making any actual changes:
```

> - Preview the command result without any changes to the files:

Reviewer 3: Perhaps this will read better?
```suggestion
- Preview the result, without making any actual changes:
```

`zmv -n '{{(*).log}}' '{{$1.txt}}'`

- Interactively move files, with a prompt before every change:

`zmv -i '{{(*).log}}' '{{$1.txt}}'`

> - Verbosely print each command as it’s being executed:

Reviewer 3: We generally prefer simple quotes rather than smart quotes.
```suggestion
- Verbosely print each action as it's being executed:
```

`zmv -v '{{(*).log}}' '{{$1.txt}}'`

> - Force `cp` (copy) regardless of the name of the function. Same as `zcp`:

Reviewer 3: I'm confused. What does this actually do? Same for the example below.

Author: `zmv` moves/renames the files deleting the old files.

If you want to `copy` the files, you can use this flag (keeps both old and new).
If you want to `create` links, you can use the flag below (keeps both old and new).

Reviewer 2: This seems like an overloading of the tool's purpose, and muddies the waters regarding the dedicated tools that exist to perform these actions. I would suggest omitting these two examples (`-C` and `-L`) and adding a "See also" note in the main description pointing to `zcp` and `zln` instead.

> 
> - Force `cp` (copy) regardless of the name of the function. Same as `zcp`:
> 
> `zmv -C '{{(*).log}}' '{{$1.txt}}'`
> 
> - Force `ln` (link) regardless of the name of the function. Same as `zln`:
> 
> `zmv -L '{{(*).log}}' '{{$1.txt}}'`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
